# 代码随想录算法训练营第一天| 704. 二分查找、27. 移除元素
## Algorithm Learning Day 1 | 704. Binary Search, 27. Remove Elements

## 27. Remove Elements
> 题目链接:(https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-element/)

### Question Description
Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `val`, remove all occurrences of `val` in `nums` **in-place**. The order of the elements may be changed. Then return the number of elements in nums which are not equal to `val`.<br>

Consider the number of elements in `nums` which are not equal to `val` be `k`, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:
  - Change the array `nums` such that the first `k` elements of `nums` contain the elements which are not equal to `val`. The remaining elements of `nums` are not important as well as the size of `nums`.
  - Return `k`.
#### Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3
Output: 2, nums = [2,2,_,_]
```
#### Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2
Output: 5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3,_,_,_]
```
#### Constraints:
- 0 <= nums.length <= 100
- 0 <= nums[i] <= 50
- 0 <= val <= 100

### First Time Thoughts
开始我想的是通过遍历循环，将nums中出现的val，替换成0，以为0是不被数组算入长度里的，然后再通过js语法中的sort，进行升序排列，将不等于val的数排到前面。但是这个思想有错误，没有实际做到移动元素和删除元素。<br>

在看了题目解析之后，才知道应该使用双指针法（快慢指针法），在这个题目中，可以设置一个慢指针k，一个快指针i，k是用于指示不等于目标值 val 的元素应该放置的位置，i可以被视为快指针，用于遍历整个数组。<br>

At first, my approach involved traversing the array `nums`, replacing occurrences of `val` with 0 under the assumption that 0 wouldn't be counted toward the array's length. Then, I intended to use the JavaScript `sort` method to arrange non-val elements by ascending order, assuming it would move non-zero elements to the front of the array. However, this approach was flawed as it didn't effectively remove or move elements.<br>

After reviewing the problem analysis, I learned about the double pointer technique (slow and fast pointers). For this problem, I realized the effective approach involves setting a slow pointer `k` and a fast pointer `i`. The slow pointer `k` indicates where elements not equal to the target value `val` should be placed, while the fast pointer `i` traverses the entire array.

### Error Codes
```
var removeElement = function(nums, val) {
    for(var i =0;i<nums.length;i++)
    {
        if(nums[i] == val)
        {
            nums[i] = 0;
        }
    }
    nums.sort(function(a,b){return b-a});
    console.log(nums.length);
};
```
### Reasons for Error
1. Used sort sorting method and assignment<br>
   These two methods are only superficial, but the array does not actually delete the same elements as val.

2. I don’t understand the question requirements, I don’t know the logic of fast and slow pointers, and I don’t know how to use k as a slow pointer.<br>

### Correct Code
```
var removeElement = function(nums, val) {
    var k =0;
    for(var i=0;i<nums.length;i++)
    {
        if(nums[i] !== val)
        {
            nums[k] = nums[i];
            k++;
        }
    }
    return k;
};
```
### Conclusion
The internal logic of the fast and slow pointers is: initially, the `k` and `i` pointers have the same sequence number. The `i` pointer will not become faster until it encounters `val`.


